Hello and welcome back so of course on blotching And today we're going to have a demo of how private
keys public keys and signatures were.
The demo look is located on the British side.
So if you'd like to follow along.
The euro is tools to criticize dot com slash block chain slash public hyphen private hyphen keys slash
keys.
I know as long you're allowed to type.
But if you go to the show the course notes you'll see that you're all there and you can just click on
it.
And before we get started a huge thank you to the person that created this is it was created by Anders
Braun worth.
As you can see the copyright notice is here and a huge thank you for allowing everybody to use it freely.
So if you'd like a copy of your own you can go to get a job and you can copy it to your website and
play around with it too.
All right.
And also a huge thank you to that team of developers and to criticize us for putting it up here.
OK so let's have a look in the first one is he and he has a couple of opinions here so we'll go through
a few of them.
It's the first one we've got an opportunity to see how they bring up the slides.
So we have an opportunity to see how this link works between the private and the public.
So there is our private key there's a public key.
So if we generate a random private key we will get public and as you can see it's always a fixed length.
It's always a hexadecimal level or as the product is just a normal number.
So you can actually type in your own private key.
So whatever lenth approach you type in you will get a fix X..
The interesting thing to note or probably the thing to keep in mind is that you don't want a short public
key like 12.
Because anybody can guess that that's why it's better to generate one randomly or when you are creating
a wall or just except the one that they give you all the.
I don't get much choice.
They just give you one and is generated randomly like that as you can see is a huge number.
So that's why it's considered unique to you.
So that's our private and public.
Now we're going to look at signatures.
So as you recall here what happens is we have the private key and the public would keep this to ourselves.
This is available to everybody.
Then we when we write a message or create a transaction we sign it with a private key but everybody
else can use the public key we have to verify that transaction.
So here we got a private key you can type in here and they get as you like.
And this is what we see in the science phase and this is what people see.
For now we're going to see the public now create a message.
Let's say Adlon sends to zero zero zero point two BTC.
So then what happens is my mouse again it is what happens is now I need to click the sign button and
this signature is generated from the message of the transaction that we've put in here.
And the private key.
And so whenever the message is going to go anywhere it's always going to have the signature attached
to it and the public key not the private.
So when we look here you can see that everybody else in the network of all the nos will get the message
or the transaction the public key and the signature as we discuss your message signature publicly the
ones that are highlighted in the yellow a little highlight there.
And so now they can use these three to verify if indeed this message what are the very fact they're.
Very important they're verifying that this signature belongs to the holder of the private key behind
this publicly.
So that's what they say.
So if they could verify and goes green This could only happen in the case that indeed the signature
of this signature was created by the person who has the private key to this public key.
And obviously the signature is directly linked to this message so if anybody tries to change anything
and they verify it doesn't verify or if they try to say look this verifies it try to change or say they
have they don't know.
I know.
Like yeah.
So basically that's it.
Like if even if you change this I don't know why you would change this but like it doesn't verify as
well so or signature.
So if they don't have access to my private key and they try to forge a fake signature so they put it
in there for an all there's no use in a hexadecimal number.
So they put in a fake signature.
It's not going to verify.
So only if you have access to the private and you have the message when you have the private key you
sign it.
You can see there's a 3 0 4 4 0 2 2 3 0 4 4 0 2 2.
And that's our public key link to this private key.
Then you verify.
All right.
So that's that's that part.
What do we have next.
We've got a transaction.
OK.
So here we are just replacing the message with a transaction see it says Message share but it's actually
a transaction.
And so again you can put in any value and say I want to send somebody 200.
Well here is dollars.
So from this address to this address and it has a private key.
So now we have more kind of details in the message itself.
But the whole concept is.
So here's my priority.
Let's say we can put in our own pro like just test it out.
You verify there's that message signature.
Now let's see what the public key for this would be.
Just to like is in the verify we already have a signature here.
Well yeah we don't have a public scene.
But in reality what should be or should be also shown here is the public key because you cannot verify
something for the public.
So if you go to keys and we put in our key here you can see is already put in for us.
And so the public key is generated.
So the public would be this one as a people actually also see the public key because they need the private
key the public key and the message the contents of the transaction to unlock the private key.
What am I saying.
They need to sign this again so people need the message the signature and the public key as we discussed
here message signature public key in order to verify.
And so as you can see it verifies and again if you try to tamper with anything it won't verify.
I wanted to point out here for full disclosure right now I think this one works if I try to tamper with
this one it works.
But if I try to change this one it still verifies and that's that's our bad.
We'll fix that.
It's part of the code.
We'll fix that code.
So it actually shouldn't verify.
So hopefully when you're checking this out it will it will go red if you try to tamper with it.
And also the signature works if I try to change the signature.
So you try to change anything in here.
And in addition remember you should also see the public here try to change anything.
It will not verify.
OK so that's those there's also this block chain one if you'd like to have a look around in your own
time and see how it works.
BLOCK Jane.
You're welcome to do so.
OK.
So I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
That's how private public keys and signatures work.
And I'll see you back here on the next one.
Until then enjoy.
BLOCK chains.